---
layout: post
comments: false

title: Week 3 Homework Blog Post
description: Homework for Week 3

author: Hannah Rank
email: hannahrank@gmail.com
twitter: sreknar
---

##Week 3 Homework Blog Post
This week I'm looking more in depth at a data set involving trends in homeownership in the U.S.
It's from Census.gov's Housing Vacancies and Homeownership page, which releases data quarterly. I compared the rate of homeownership across different age brackets (ranging from 25 to 75) from 4th quarter 2010 to the 1st quarter of 2016. My reasoning for choosing a quarter in 2010 and not, say, 2008 or 2009, is because I was hoping to get a quarter that was not directly influenced by scrupulous lending leading up to the housing market crash or in the months after the bubble burst. 

After analysing the numbers, I found that the rate of homeowners has gone down by the largest number of percentage points in the age brackets of 25 - 34. For example, in 2010 52.6 percent of those 30 - 34 years of age were listed as homeowners, verses in 2016 where 45.7 percent of those in that age bracket were listed as homeowners (a change of 6.9 percentage points). 

<iframe width="600" height="371" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/a/u.northwestern.edu/spreadsheets/d/1VhO4XP0zdAi0AOk7B13hsZ8rIojsIxMMzkzkqhGVYoI/pubchart?oid=476115155&amp;format=image"></iframe>

Many economists who specialize in housing market research describe an 18-year real-estate cycle. The Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank based in Washington, <a href="http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/great-18year-real-estate-cycle" target="_blank">published</a> a piece describing in detail how the housing cycle peaks every 18-20 years, corresponding with a peak in land price and, thusly, a peak in low-interest lending using the expensive land as collateral. 

Factoring these long-established housing market trends identified by economists, I wanted to look more specifically at the possible cultural reasons Americans in their mid-20s to early 30s opt out of owning a home. Here are two interesting ones I looked into:

1) Financial: More people are seeking undergraduate education than ever before, a majority of which are young people. The National Center for Education Statistics said that in 1983 10.8 million people in the U.S. were enrolled an undergraduate institution; in 2013, 30 years later, saw a nearly 69 percent increase in those enrolled (18.1 million). But, for a number of students, with college comes loans, which nearly half of young Americans are <a href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/more-than-40-of-student-borrowers-arent-making-payments-1459971348" target="_blank">struggling</a> to pay off. Immediate concern over loan repayment, not to mention what outstanding loans can do to your credit, may be leading young people to hold off on the massive investment of buying a home.

2) Shifting marital situation: An interesting <a href="http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2016/05/24/for-first-time-in-modern-era-living-with-parents-edges-out-other-living-arrangements-for-18-to-34-year-olds/" target="_blank">study</a> recently published by PEW Research center found that “for the first time in more than 130 years, adults ages 18 to 34 were slightly more likely to be living in their parents’ home than they were to be living with a spouse or partner in their own household.” PEW connected the drop in young homeownership to the increasing average age of marriage. The hypothesis by PEW being that a person may be more likely to own his/her own home if they have a partner to share the financial burden and/or he/she is planning to start his/her own family under his/her own roof. 

The results of my inquiry are interesting, and point most likely to a mixture of long-established housing market cycles and cultural trends in young people’s living decisions. 

-Hannah
