---
layout: post
comments: false

title: Week 10 Homework Blog Post
description: Homework for Week 9

author: Hannah Rank
email: hannahrank@gmail.com
twitter: sreknar
---

Week 10 Blog Post: The Buzz on Honey (Forgive me)

I've been thinking a lot about bees and honey. 

<iframe src="//giphy.com/embed/G8NrleNPqxpK0" width="480" height="273" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="http://giphy.com/gifs/gob-arrested-development-G8NrleNPqxpK0">via GIPHY</a></p>

Bees are fascinating creatures and, let's face it, honey is delicious. Also, the habitats of bees are going away (!!), so it is a real possibility that U.S. supply of honey could drop off in the next century or two. 

In the last 10 years, according to data from the USDA, average U.S. honey bee production is hovering at at average of about 158,000 pounds. The heighest production has gotten in the last decade is nearly 178,000 in 2014 and the lowest it's gotten is around 146,000 in 2009. 

Interestingly, demand has decreased in the last few years and so the price has been steadily increasing. Right now, the heighest the price of honey has gotten in the last 10 years was in 2014 (there's no 2016 data) where the average price was $2.17 a pound. According to my regression analysis, if the price hits just $3.36, the demand will drop off. 

<iframe width="738.4743935309973" height="351.965909090909" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14BrDGOSQeG44rGLMxfonyKi1HAu4qoZg-Qbhua9W0Zo/pubchart?oid=678570009&amp;format=interactive"></iframe>

I will say, in closing, that the r value is pretty weak. Despite the fact that I basically should just cut out the middle man and ingest honey via IV, not everyone these days feels my passion. I think honey just aint that cool. Or its more expensive because of concerns that production may drop off if habitats continue to decline. Production is steady, but it may not be forever! I will be very sad if the honeybees can't find food. Seriously, guys, honey bees are awesome, majestic, whip smart creatures! Plant some bee-friendly plants in your yard!

-H

