---
layout: post
comments: false

title: Week 5 Homework Blog Post
description: Homework for Week 4

author: Hannah Rank
email: hannahrank@gmail.com
twitter: sreknar
---

Week 4 Blog Homework: Examples of good and bad data viz

The good: A recently published data interactive on <a href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/gun-deaths/" target="_blank">gun deaths</a> from FiveThirtyEight

My favorite part of this visualization is its simplicity. I mean, a bunch of dots to represent people, doesn't get too much more simple than that. But the way FiveThirtyEight moves you through the data has a nice progression. They build to the surprise (that a majority of gun deaths are from suicide) very strikingly. I defintely do not think a straight forward data-story sans visualization would have had as much impact. But I also appreciated how the simplicity of it underscored the importance of the message, not distracted from it.


The bad: An (admittedly) <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/02/23/movies/20080223_REVENUE_GRAPHIC.html?_r=0" target="_blank">older</a> data visualization/interactive from the New York Times

This visualization is beautiful, no doubt. But it's also busy, complicated and distracting. I have to say, I get what they were going for and I really wanted it to work for me. I think choosing fewer movies would have helped. It's nice that it's interactive (you can scroll over the shapes to see which movie each is referring to). There's just wayyyy too much going on. I'm reminded of that visualization of Napolean's march David showed us last week in class, where a lot was being expressed but I never felt confused while looking at each component. The same cannot be said for this.
